Hypercat libraries for java

This project houses a set of java methods and classes for manipulating Hypercats - 
that is, simple JSON container-objects that are used to carry data back and forward 
between devices and/or consumers connected to the Internet of Things.

The code is made available under the MIT licence, and has been written for the
openIOT cluster - a group of organisations set up to promote interoperability
between devices and systems.

More information about (and the specification for) Hypercat can be found here:

http://wiki.1248.io/doku.php?id=hypercat

The javadoc for this library (included) will explain what it does, but in brief, it
contains classes that represent Hypercat, Item and Relation objects, and methods that
enable their creation (both manually and from JSON streams) and manipulation.

A collection of example servlets making up a simple web-application 
(the classes in org.openIOT.examples, and the file WEB-INF/web.xml) is also included.  
These demonstrate the creation and manipulation of hypercat objects in java.  In 
order to try these out, you will need to have a servlet container available to deploy
the webapp on (eg Apache Tomcat, Jetty, etc).  If you wish to install one, this is 
fairly straightforward.  First of all, make sure you have a Java JDK (v5+) installed, 
then go to http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi and follow the instructions for 
your system.

Once you have installed Tomcat, you can deploy the webapp very easily.  Just copy 
the file called hypercat.war into the directory in the installed Tomcat location called
'webapps'.  For example, if you have installed Tomcat in the location 
/usr/local/share/apache-tomcat-6/ then cd to this directory and you will find that 
one of the subdirectories is called'webapps'. Copy hypercat.war to this webapps 
directory).  Once you have done this, and started up Tomcat, then the hypercat
example webapp can be tried by visiting <localurl>/hypercat.  For example, if you have
installed Tomcat to respond on port 8080 (the default), the hypercat webapp can be found
at http://127.0.0.1:8080/hypercat.

The webapp allows you to create hypercats via a number of methods: either a minimal basic
one via typing in a description, or via pasting in a JSON string defining a hypercat, 
or by uploading a file of JSON containing a definition.  Validity of the JSON is checked 
when the hypercat is being created.  There are several example hypercats in files in the
src/test/resources folder on the git repo.  Note that the upload facility assumes that 
tomcat has write-access to a top-level directory called /tmp

The created hypercats are displayed on creation, and a search utility provided to allow 
the hypercat to be searched.  This utility is fairly basic: it allows the href, rel and val 
elements of the hypercat's items collection to be searched for exact matches (eg for the 
hypercat defined in src/test/resources/searchHypercatExample.json, searching for val=3 produces 
a hypercat with three items, whereas searching for rel=urn:X-tsbiot:rels:1 produces a results-
hypercat containing two items).  No wildcards etc are supported - this is left as an exercise
for the student!

The project is a work-in-progress, and in no sense a finished article - openIOT welcomes 
contributions by interested hackers and other ne'er-do-wells.

Jeremy Johnson, Mar 2014



